---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: "Overview"
---
# Overview
The OpenQKDNetwork project aims to provide a reference implementation of a **4-layer Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) network solution**: [the paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.02617), [project homepage](https://www.openqkdnetwork.net/)  Two sample applications are also provided to show case how an application can fetch and make use of the keys generated by a QKD network.

A very flexible layered approach has been adopted adhering to [SOLID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOLID_(object-oriented_design)) principles.

Microservice based architecture approach has been taken for software design and
and implementation. One benefit of it is to have flexibility in production deployment.

**Complied and tested successfully on Ubuntu 16.04 and Linux Mint 18.3 with Java 8, Ubuntu 20.4/Java 11.  Changes will be needed for working in other environments (OS, Java version, etc.)**

---

## Layers


1. Key Management System (KMS)
2. Quantum Network Layer (QNL)
3. Quantum Link Layer (QLL)

The fourth layer is the User (or Host) Layer, which belongs to the client of this system, and thus is beyond the scope of this project.
QKD devices belong to the QLL, and may need a vendor specific glue layer of code in QLL to make it work with the other layers, before any international standard (e.g. ETSI, ITU-T) on the interface is widely adopted.

###  Key Management System (KMS)

The KMS layer provides an application interface for fetching keys for symmetric
cryptography. The details of how the key is used belong to the applications at the User layer.

KMS layer comprises the following microservices:

1. Configuration service
2. Registration Service
3. Authorization Service
4. KMS Service
5. KMS API Gateway Service
6. KMS QNL Service

### Quantum Network Layer (QNL)

QNL is the core compoent to extend the QKD technology from point-to-point to network level. It is the middle layer sandwiched between KMS layer and QLL (Quantum Link Layer).
QNL provides key blocks to KMS after fetching it from QLL. Thus, it keeps the KMS
layer QKD-technology-agnostic.  

QNL currently consists of a single microservice:

#### Key Routing Service

Key Routing Service contains a routing modual and key relaying modual, to react to the QKD network topology dynamics automatically and in a timely fashion.  It not only pushes key blocks to KMS QNL service for KMS
service, but also responds to pull requests for key blocks directly from KMS service.

### QKD Link Layer (QLL)

Ideally, QLL consists of working QKD devices. A QLL simulator is provided in this project for situations where real QKD devices based links are unavailable, e.g., a planned satellite based QKD link between two nodes that are geographically far away.